You need an USB keyboard connected to the PI before switch on, no USB hot-plug. Optionally you can plug a PS3/PS4/XBox360/XBox One/Nintendo Switch Pro Controller gamepad and an USB mouse.
Choose a virtual tape from tape selector and type LOAD "" + [ENTER]
F1 key: Help.
Left Alt + 'K': Keyboard Help
Pressing [Select / SHARE / View / Capture] gamepad key the emulated joystick changes to:
Model	Cross (X) or A	Circle (O) or B	Square or X	Triangle or Y	L1 - R1	L2 - R2
None	---	---	---	---	---	---
Kempston	Fire	Fire 2	Fire 2	Fire	Fire	Fire 2
Fuller	Fire	Fire 2	Fire 2	Fire	Fire	Fire 2
Sinclair 1	Fire	Key 'x'	Key 'x'	Fire	Fire	Key 'x'
Sinclair 2	Fire	Key 'z'	Key 'z'	Fire	Fire	Key 'z'
Cursor/AGF/Protek	Fire	Key '9'	Key '9'	Fire	Fire	Key '9'
QAOPSpaceM	Fire (Space)	Fire 2 (Key 'm')	Fire 2 (Key 'm')	Fire	Fire	Fire 2 (Key 'm')
How to use a Recreated ZX keyboard
The keyboard should be plugged before switch on the Raspberry PI and the mode selection switch should be in Layer A mode. Can be connected with or without a standard USB keyboard. The Recreated keyboard have two working modes:
Standard mode: works exactly as a real Spectrum 48k rubber keyboard.
Alternate mode: You can enter to this mode using the key combination Caps-Shift + Symbol-Shift + ENTER. Then, you can watch an informational message on screen and an icon is printed on lower right corner. Then, keys '1' to '9' works as F1-F10 from a standard keyboard, and the Symbol-Shift key acts as the 'Alt' modifier key, so pressing Symbol-Shift + K you can see a help screen with key combinations for this mode. You can exit from this mode using the same key combination used to enter on it.
To Switch to +2 and Plus 3 mode simply select alt F3 and F4 respectly.






in the file browser - F1 key select the file you want to load The Included software is in the software directory.

After selecting the software directory with the spacebar not enter select the game or app you wish to load.



now return to the sinclair screen and type Load "" and press enter. The Keyboard mapping takes a bit of getting used to you can use alt K to pull up the keyboard map.
Load the game and have some fun.



